OSDOCS-19019 added assembly and modules for plugins (#110184)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/zero-trust-manager-preparing-plugin-use.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/zero_trust_workload_identity_manager/zero-trust-manager-plugins.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="zero-trust-manager-preparing-plugin-use_{context}"]
= Preparing cert-manager for SPIRE Server

[role="_abstract"]

> Install {cert-manager-operator} and create an Issuer or ClusterIssuer that can sign SPIRE intermediate certificates. After you complete this procedure, configure `spec.upstreamAuthority.certManager` on the `SpireServer` CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install {cert-manager-operator} and create an `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` that can sign SPIRE intermediate certificates. After you complete this procedure, configure `spec.upstreamAuthority.certManager` on the `SpireServer` CR.
```

Author: Done

.Prerequisites

> * You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You are logged in to the cluster with the `cluster-admin` role.
```

Author: Done

metadata:
  name: selfsigned-bootstrap
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
----

.. Apply the `ClusterIssuer` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f selfsigned-bootstrap.yaml
----

. Use the bootstrap `ClusterIssuer` to issue a root CA certificate into a Secret:

.. Save the following manifest as `spire-root-ca.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: spire-root-ca
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  isCA: true
  secretName: spire-root-ca-secret
  issuerRef:
    name: selfsigned-bootstrap
    kind: ClusterIssuer
  commonName: "SPIRE Root CA"
  duration: 87600h
----

.. Apply the `Certificate` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f spire-root-ca.yaml
----

. Create a CA `Issuer` that references the root CA Secret:

.. Save the following manifest as `spire-ca-issuer.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: spire-ca
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  ca:
    secretName: spire-root-ca-secret
----

.. Apply the `Issuer` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f spire-ca-issuer.yaml
----

.Verification

> . Confirm that the bootstrap `ClusterIssuer`, root CA `Certificate`, and signing `Issuer` are ready by running the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Confirm that the bootstrap `ClusterIssuer`, root CA `Certificate`, and signing `Issuer` are ready by running the following commands:
```
use a bullet when there is just one step; more properly this should be broken into 3 steps

Author: Done

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/spire/cert-manager-upstream-authority-plugin.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="zero-trust-manager-preparing-plugin-use_{context}"]

> = Preparing to use the cert-manager upstream authority plugin

Author: Done

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have installed {zero-trust-full} or plan to install it after {cert-manager-operator} is ready.

.Procedure

. Verify that {cert-manager-operator} is running by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n cert-manager
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-5d7f97b46d-8xxxx              1/1     Running   0          1d
cert-manager-cainjector-69d885bf55-xxxxx   1/1     Running   0          1d
cert-manager-webhook-54754dcdfd-xxxxx      1/1     Running   0          1d
----

. Create an Issuer that SPIRE Server can use to sign intermediate certificates.

.. Create a YAML file, for example `spire-ca-issuer.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: spire-ca
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
----

> 

Reviewer 2: A selfSigned Issuer won't produce the correct certificate chain for SPIRE's UpstreamAuthority. Each certificate it signs is self-signed with its own key- there's no root CA to chain to. The example should use a CA-type Issuer backed by a root CA Secret. The typical pattern is:
1. Create a self-signed ClusterIssuer (to bootstrap)
2. Use it to issue a root CA Certificate into a Secret
3. Create a CA Issuer referencing that Secret
Example:
```
# Step 1: Bootstrap issuer
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: selfsigned-bootstrap
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
---
# Step 2: Root CA certificate
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: spire-root-ca
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  isCA: true
  secretName: spire-root-ca-secret
  issuerRef:
    name: selfsigned-bootstrap
    kind: ClusterIssuer
  commonName: "SPIRE Root CA"
  duration: 87600h
---
# Step 3: CA Issuer that SPIRE uses
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: spire-ca
  namespace: cert-manager
spec:
  ca:
    secretName: spire-root-ca-secret
```

Author: Done
